# Anwarkhan.github.io
Project # 01: Artificial Intelligence-based discovery of cancer-specific metabolic biomarkers.
This project falls under the umbrella of the main project named “*Artificial Intelligence-based Drug Discovery*.” This study is divided into two parts:
* Proposing a deep learning-based feature selection method to extract relevant metabolic genes from gene expression cancer profiles.
* Validation of the extracted genes via in-vitro experiments in the wet lab.
Motivation: At present, numerous research had revealed that the metabolic rewiring in the cancer cells is one of the determining factors during tumor initiation and progression. Thus, the inclusion of metabolic signatures may provide significant information beyond routine prognosis in several cancer types. In this study, by using the gene expression profiles of metabolic-related genes, a deep learning-based algorithm was developed to extract relevant genes contributing to tumor initiation and progression and overall survival of different cancer types. Expression profiles of melanoma, gastric cancer, and lung cancer were used in this study. The results of the proposed algorithm were compared with the conventionally used feature selection algorithms such as recursive feature selection (RFE), mutual information (MI), sequential forward floating selection (SFFS), and sequential backward floating selection (SBFS).
Now, the results of the algorithm implementations (proposed and commonly used feature selected methods) are submitted to one of the project collaborators to validate the method as well as to establish the significance of the research.
